Jobs [Distributed Scheduler] API docs, pt.1 (#4164)
dapr/docs: daprdocs/content/en/reference/api/jobs_api.md

---
type: docs
title: "Jobs API reference"
linkTitle: "Jobs API"
description: "Detailed documentation on the jobs API"
weight: 1300
---

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> The jobs API is currently in alpha.

Reviewer: Can you also update this table https://docs.dapr.io/operations/support/alpha-beta-apis/ for the jobs alpha API

```

### URL parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
`name` | Name of the job you're scheduling
`data` | A string value and can be any related content. Content is returned when the reminder expires. For example, this may be useful for returning a URL or anything related to the content.
`dueTime` | Specifies the time after which this job is invoked. Its format should be [time.ParseDuration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration)

### Request body

```json
{
  "job": {
      "data": {
          "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.type.Expr",
          "expression": "<expression>"
      },
      "dueTime": "30s"
  }
}
```

### HTTP response codes

Code | Description
---- | -----------
`202`  | Accepted
`400`  | Request was malformed
`500`  | Request formatted correctly, error in dapr code or Scheduler control plane service

### Response content

The following example curl command creates a job, naming the job `jobforjabba` and specifying the `dueTime` and the `data`.

```bash
$ curl -X POST \
  http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/jobforjabba \
  -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
  -d '{
        "job": {
            "data": {

>                 "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.type.Expr",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
                "HanSolo": "Running spice"
```

>                 "expression": "expression1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

            },
            "dueTime": "30s"
        }
    }'
```

## Get job data

Get a job from its name.

```
GET http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/<name>
```

### URL parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
`name` | Name of the scheduled job you're retrieving

### HTTP response codes

Code | Description
---- | -----------
`202`  | Accepted
`400`  | Request was malformed
`500`  | Request formatted correctly, error in dapr code or Scheduler control plane service

### Response content

After running the following example curl command, the returned response is JSON containing the `name` of the job, the `dueTime`, and the `data`.

```bash
$ curl -X GET http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/jobforjabba -H "Content-Type: application/json" 
```

```json
{
  "name":"test1",
  "dueTime":"30s",
  "data": {

>      "@type":"type.googleapis.com/google.type.Expr",

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     "HanSolo": "Running spice"
```

>      "expression":"expression1"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---
type: docs
title: "Jobs API reference"
linkTitle: "Jobs API"
description: "Detailed documentation on the jobs API"
weight: 1300
---

{{% alert title="Note" color="primary" %}}

> Jobs is currently in alpha.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The jobs API is currently in alpha.
```

{{% /alert %}}

With the jobs API, you can schedule jobs and tasks in the future.

## Schedule a job

Schedule a job with a name.

```
POST http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/<name>
```

### URL parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------
`name` | Name of the job you're scheduling
`data` | A string value and can be any related content. Content is returned when the reminder expires. For example, this may be useful for returning a URL or anything related to the content.

> `dueTime` | Specifies the time after which the jobs are invoked. Its format should be [time.ParseDuration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`dueTime` | Specifies the time after which this job is invoked. Its format should be [time.ParseDuration](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration)
```

### Request body

```json
{
  "job": {
      "data": {
          "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.type.Expr",
          "expression": "<expression>"
      },
      "dueTime": "30s"
  }
}
```

### HTTP response codes

Code | Description
---- | -----------
`202`  | Accepted
`400`  | Request was malformed
`500`  | Request formatted correctly, error in dapr code or Scheduler control plane service

### Response content

> The following example curl command creates a job, naming the job `test1` and specifying the `dueTime` and the `data`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example curl command creates a job, naming the job `jobforjabba` and specifying the `dueTime` and the `data`.
```

```bash
$ curl -X POST \

>   http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/test1 \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/jobforjabba \
```

Reviewer: I thought we should have a bit of fun, given that In "Star Wars: A New Hope," Han Solo mentions a job he had with Jabba the Hutt!

  -H "Content-Type: application/json" \

>     -H 'dapr-app-id: sub' \

Reviewer: Maybe a little formatting with the second -H command. But not a big issue. 
However can say that you need to provide the  `app-id` as part of the header? we should say this in an ### Request-Header section above. 
@cicoyle Is this `app-id` mandatory?

Reviewer 2: no, it is not mandatory. It was the case I did a copy/paste and forgot to remove it for the example run. Please rm this line: `-H 'dapr-app-id: sub' \`

>     -H 'dapr-app-id: sub' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  -H 'dapr-app-id: hansolo' \
```

>     -H 'dapr-app-id: sub' \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    -H 'dapr-app-id: hansolo' \
```

  -d '{
        "job": {
            "data": {
                "@type": "type.googleapis.com/google.type.Expr",
                "expression": "expression1"
            },
            "dueTime": "30s"
        }
    }'
```

## Get job data

> Get a job with its name.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Get a job from its name.
```

```
GET http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/<name>
```

### URL parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------

> `name` | Name of the job you're scheduling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`name` | Name of the scheduled job you're retrieving
```

### HTTP response codes

Code | Description
---- | -----------
`202`  | Accepted
`400`  | Request was malformed
`500`  | Request formatted correctly, error in dapr code or Scheduler control plane service

### Response content

After running the following example curl command, the returned response is JSON containing the `name` of the job, the `dueTime`, and the `data`.

```bash

> $ curl -X GET http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/job/test1 -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 'dapr-app-id: sub'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl -X GET http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/jobforjabba -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 'dapr-app-id: hansolo'
```

```

```json
{
  "name":"test1",
  "dueTime":"30s",
  "data": {
     "@type":"type.googleapis.com/google.type.Expr",
     "expression":"expression1"
   }
}                                    
```
## Delete a job

Delete a named job.

```
DELETE http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/<name> 
```

### URL parameters

Parameter | Description
--------- | -----------

> `name` | Name of the job you're scheduling

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`name` | Name of the job you're deleting
```

### HTTP response codes

Code | Description
---- | -----------
`202`  | Accepted
`400`  | Request was malformed
`500`  | Request formatted correctly, error in dapr code or Scheduler control plane service

### Response content

> In the following example curl command, the job named `test1` with app-id `sub` will be deleted

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example curl command, the job named `jobforjabba` with app-id `hansolo ` will be deleted
```

```bash

> $ curl -X DELETE http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/test -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 'dapr-app-id: sub'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ curl -X DELETE http://localhost:3500/v1.0-alpha1/jobs/jobforjabba -H "Content-Type: application/json" -H 'dapr-app-id: hansolo'
```
